.. _PresentBoards:


PresentBoards parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **name** :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; name>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) Name for this board. If empty we use the name of the PCB.
   Applies to all modes.
-  ``back_image`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; back_image>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) How to obtain the back view of the PCB.
   *local*: the name of an output to render it.
   If empty we use the first renderer.
   *file*: the name of the rendered image.
   *external*: ignored, we use `extrenal_config`.
-  ``comment`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; comment>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) A comment or description for this board.
   Applies to all modes.
-  ``external_config`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; external_config>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) Name of an external KiBot configuration.
   Only used in the *external* mode.
-  ``front_image`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; front_image>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) How to obtain the front view of the PCB.
   *local*: the name of an output to render it.
   If empty we use the first renderer.
   *file*: the name of the rendered image.
   *external*: ignored, we use `extrenal_config`.
-  ``gerbers`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; gerbers>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) How to obtain an archive with the gerbers.
   *local*: the name of a `gerber` output.
   If empty we use the first `gerber` output.
   *file*: the name of a compressed archive.
   *external*: ignored, we use `extrenal_config`.
-  ``mode`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; mode>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``'local'``) (choices: "local", "file", "external") How images and gerbers are obtained.
   *local*: Only applies to the currently selected PCB.
   You must provide the names of the outputs used to render
   the images and compress the gerbers.
   When empty KiBot will use the first render/gerber output
   it finds.
   To apply variants use `pcb_from_output` and a `pcb_variant`
   output.
   *file*: You must specify the file names used for the images and
   the gerbers.
   *external*: You must specify an external KiBot configuration.
   It will be applied to the selected PCB to create the images and
   the gerbers. The front image must be generated in a dir called
   *front*, the back image in a dir called *back* and the gerbers
   in a dir called *gerbers*.
-  ``pcb_file`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; pcb_file>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) Name of the KiCad PCB file. When empty we use the current PCB.
   Is ignored for the *local* mode.
-  ``pcb_from_output`` :index:`: <pair: output - kikit_present - options - boards; pcb_from_output>` [:ref:`string <string>`] (default: ``''``) Use the PCB generated by another output.
   Is ignored for the *file* mode.

